A Brief Note on How I Went About Finding these Papers:
Okay, there is this wonderful part of the internet called Google Scholar. This site will scan through semi-reputable scientific journals, University publications, and other public institutions to allow you to find what is sometimes well-researched pieces with wonderful amounts of real evidence. It is easy to use and provides plenty of access to information that is impossible to find anywhere on the web. What I searched for on Google Scholar was this simple Phrase, gender-affirming care. I than proceeded to scan through the first ten pages of google scholar and opened the links that seemed to be studies on the effectiveness of gender-affirming care, as there were plenty of recommendations on how doctors and other medical practitioners were actually supposed to give this care in papers of repute. From this I opened like 20 or some pages, which was than narrowed down to 15 papers because of both not satisfying the study aspect of my search and not having institutional access to the paper (I am using my access through University of Texas at Dallas for a lot fo these papers). I than read through all of these papers and than further categorized those that I thought I should look into the sources a bit more substantially as they seemed well evidenced and researched or had significant other papers linked. I than looked at these sources. Also, I for some reason decided I had to look at the cass report I do not know why, I think some paper probably briefly mentioned it in its references. This cass report is around 500 pages long, because I don't  really have the time nor the qualified expertise I am not reading this, and instead I am relying on the expertise which aligns with the perspectives of the papers i read anyone, justification will be included below with links to these more expertise related sites.

Conclusions:
My basic conclusions are that gender-affirming care seems to be effective, that there seems to be what can be called a low-moderate reliablity of the evidence of said evidence, and that for puberty blockers and the like for children more needs to be researched, with the evidence being presented so far saying that they cause no effective harm but the evidence is very low-reliability. What these treatments are effective at is lowering the depression, suicidal ideation and action, and increasing the quality of life of those that take them. Interesting they have little to no observed affect on the anxiety of the subjects in the studies, but again they have a marked effect on depression and quality of life, with most test showing a 20% decrease in the depressive outcomes, an outcome that most recommended anti-depressants and therapy in conjuction struggle to achieve. Now, for surgical outcomes there were to main studies that I read, a study conducted by the Swedish Clinic/Government that concluded in 2010, and a study conducted by an American group that was conducted in 2015. The Swedish Study showed reasonable outcomes. It covered a roup of around 800 people, which were contacted and than surveyed through the Swedish government, as the Swedish government required any gender-transitions to be registered around in the 1950s. In this study, 15 people said they had regrets over their legal transition, a suprisingly few number given that sterilization was required by the swedish government to transition legally, an interesting case of modern euthenasia. The american study is quite a large canvas that covered over 25000 individuals and studied various things. 8899 individuals in this study underwent some sort of "gender-affirming surgery". Those individuals had less than half of the amount of suicidal ideation, attempts, and psychological stress over the months surveyed. Also incidentally these people seem to have higher amounts of substance abuse, which likewise for Tobacco Use was decreased by 10% and binge drinking was decreased by 5% for those that had "gender-affirming-surgery". On the Cass Report (god I love Adam Smith), the reason I looked at the Swedish Paper when I saw it in the references of a research paper was because I think you mentioned it. Likewise when I saw the Cass report mentioned in the References I decided I had to look at it because I think you mentioned it. However, unlike the Swedish Paper which luckily was made by a group of researchers who know how to write in a digestible format the Cass Report is over 400 pages long. So, instead I just looked at what seemed to be what people were saying about the Cass Report. Generally, from the two sites I looked at, links below, they seem to be saying that the Report says the data has low-reliability. Which, is yes, what the papers themselves say. However, a large part of the reason for these test being low reliablity is plainly obvious, as it is difficult to create a reliable control group and a reliable placebo group. For a control group all you can really do is not give these people medical care, which of course has ethical concerns, but also leads to a less reliable control group in itself, as it can only be conducted through anonymous surveys. A placebo group is just plainly impossible with this sort of care... Like to be clear, this is what I had read before reading the Cass Report to, that the evidence is "low" reliability, like this is the case and is agreed upon, but clearly the evidence exist and is substantial at the same time, which is the reason why the World Health Organization does recommend gender-affirming care, which come to think of it I should of re-read the section that the Who has on recommendation for this care, as they also include notable resources on it.
Also, MtF tend to be more insane, also the cohort as a whole seems to be more autistic than average.

Papers:
Papers of Special Notice:
Swedish Clinic -> An Analysis of All Applications for Sex Reassignment Surgery in Sweden, 1960–2010: Prevalence, Incidence, and Regrets;  DOI: 10.1007/s10508-014-0300-8 
American Survey -> Association Between Gender-Affirming Surgeries and Mental Health Outcomes; Doi: 10.1001/jamasurg.2021.0952
Youth -> Mental Health Outcomes in Transgender and Nonbinary Youths Receiving Gender-Affirming Care; Doi:10.1001/jamanetworkopen.2022.0978


The Rest:
Gender-affirming care, mental health, and economic stability in the time of COVID-19: A multi-national, cross-sectional study of transgender and nonbinary people;  DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0254215 
Provision of gender-affirming care for trans and gender-diverse adults: a systematic review of health and quality of life outcomes, values and preferences, and costs; DOI: 10.1016/j.eclinm.2025.103458 
Gender Affirming Care Is Evidence Based for Transgender and Gender-Diverse Youth; DOI: 10.1016/j.jadohealth.2024.09.009
Scientific Misinformation and Gender Affirming Care: Tools for Providers on the Front Lines; DOI: 10.1016/j.jadohealth.2022.06.008
Prohibition of Gender-Affirming Care as a Form of Child Maltreatment: Reframing the Discussion; DOI: 10.1542/peds.2023-064292 , the comment section in this one is quite good 
Pediatric Gender Affirming Care is Not Evidence-based; no Doi lol... also the graphs in this one are humourous, very Andrea Dworkin esk
“Affirming” journey: Narrative review and practice considerations on gender affirming care; DOI: 10.1002/jac5.1621
Provision of gender-affirming care for trans and gender-diverse adults: a systematic review of health and quality of life outcomes, values and preferences, and costs; DOI: 10.1016/j.eclinm.2025.103458
Long-term effect of gender-affirming hormone treatment on depression and anxiety symptoms in transgender people: A prospective cohort study; DOI: 10.1111/andr.12884
Hormone Therapy, Mental Health, and Quality of Life Among Transgender People: A Systematic Review; DOI: 10.1210/jendso/bvab011 
Chirurgie mammaire de réassignation vers le sexe masculin : étude rétrospective de la satisfaction des patients transsexuels après mastectomie;  DOI: 10.1016/j.anplas.2017.05.005, french...
Sites for Cass Summaration:
https://forums.studentdoctor.net/threads/the-cass-review.1494115/
https://skeptics.stackexchange.com/questions/56880/methodology-of-the-cass-review
As you can see I didn't read to deeply into this, but it seems to align with what every single study listed above was saying, that this evidence is low-reliability...