


- Domination can be had without the direct enforcement of that domination, I think this is something pretty accepted, but without
thought of the consequence of this view. That is people do think of the possibility of a good king, as long as he doesnt execute you
aren't you just as free as if there was no king. Though this is obviously false I have never heard anyone articulate specifically why it
is. The answer to this that domination isnt just the enforcement of the power but can be held subject to that power. It doesnt matter
if the king or ruler acts upon that power the fact of holding the power is domination, the mere threat of it is enough to diminish ones
freedom. i think this is what most people automatically assume when questioned over why someone is free or not, but it was nice to here
a direct explanation

- she says that socialist advocate that wage-labour is a form of domination, it clearly is but she doesnt articulate why

- says that some people might think that the use of the language of master as a term for the dominator diminishes the specific atrocity
that is American Chattle Slavery, but that the Anarchist are not doing this to diminish the atrocity but are just using ancient
terminology "for (not a quote from her but just a stupid generilzation by me stupid bitch) the original political disunity" to bring
their points to light. Meaning i say free us from masters to say that all political enslavement has been the same throughout history, to rid
us of our current masters is the same action have needed to take throughout all of history the destruction of dominiation. but this point,
i think misses the point. People already recognize that this is what anarchist are doing when they say no more master mate, people unlike
me can speak and understand language fluently. So, i just find her response not good enough, I think there are valid responses but they
rest on more emphasize on the fact that chattle slavery is a form of domination and slave and master is practically the oldest form
of domination known to man, and the most basic.

- authority necessitates oprresison and violence for its maintenance, otherwise why would you listen...

- the anarchist, or these anarchist at least do not reject authority on principle, but upon the imposition of authority,
such that the authority of those who are skilled or educated in a task can still be accepted, but not imposed on another. One freely listens
to experts, the experts do not enforce their will upon you.

- authority is not the delegation of work but instead the delegation of power, that is delegation of task for large scale labour does not
necessitate authority but only necessitates the acceptance of delegated task, which it is far more than imaginable to have a system
that does this

- authority is not simply domination, as she states that the violence the oppressed might afflict on the oppressor is not an authoratitive one
as in her opinion authority is an interconnected threat and justification for that violence, which necessitates larger social structures or patterns
that justify and facilitate that violence. So when the slave rebels, or the abused punches back they are not oppressing said abuser, as oppression requires
a continued justification and facilitation of violence over another to be oprression, I seem to have forgotten this fact

- kropotkin, an anarchist claimed that agricultural communities were capable of being organized without authority, or without
the state. He claims that states are formed from these conglomorates by the need of defense, which causes a warrior class to
arise, which causes wealth to arise disproportionally. This than allows for this warrior class to offer migrants some of their
excess property in exchange for indentured servitude, which is the beginning of the creation of a state. This isnt the only
thing that leads to authority in a few though, he also says in turn it needs to be the memorization of social norms by families,
such that certain families will take up memorization of the local history and this memorization justifies social authority. When
a single family/man acquires these powers the state emerges. Also, patriarchal primogeniture is required for either of these
sources of authority to accumalate, wealth needs to be concentrated in one line of the family and so does the knowledge of
the local history to actually establish an imbalance of the two. Actually nevermind, she seems to say that it is not needed
for these two factors to combine, but they are just two forms of political authority.

- she argues that a lot of these specifics that kropotkin argues for, like the need of a warrior class, works better if generalized.
That the accumulation of this wealth power doesnt need necessarily warfare but is depenedent on the socio-cultural specifics of the area.

- uses the examples of athenian archons as a great instance where kropotkins interpretation of state formation fits very well,
the archons held military power, religous, legal, and economic in one role, the archonship, which had several members. These
archons were elected from the aristocracy. Wasnt enough time for to much detail on tthe specifics but it fits into
kropotkins theory as the members consolidated wealth and consolidiated legal history of the area. They consolidated wealth
by being the wealthiest people and they consolidated legal history as the way laws were passed down were orally, and the
people who orally passed down the laws were the archons. They also consolidated religous authority, but she wasnt to clear
on how they did this. So with these three consolidations they follow kropotkins theory of states formation, which is
what most people would think of Athens as being, a state. She comments on how the usual interpretation of all forms of power
as being states is anachronous and due to bad historical interpretation, as the modern view of the state is incredibly speciicf
and really only formed in the last few hundred years, so to apply it to periods were modes of authority were vastly different
is not very useful.
